let me ask you a question and let's get
honest for a second okay
have you ever launched the Google ads
campaign you're super pumped or maybe
you've already had one running for a
while and you just go to Google you know
what I mean just to get a lay of the
land we've all done that we've all been
there right we're running our campaigns
we go to Google and we search one of our
keywords and then there's always that
one freaking competitor that's always
ranked above you or even worse you go to
Google you search one of your keywords
and your ad is nowhere to be seen and
all you see is a list of all these other
competition that are popping up when
your potential prospect is searching one
of your dream keywords and you don't
even know where your ad is hey guys
Sylvia Perez from ad conversion and in
today's video I want to show you how you
can flat-out outrank your Google ads
competition for good now before I get
into this video and the tactics and the
how-to I want to first preface the video
by giving you the proper mindset you
need to have in order to analyze your
campaigns in the first place for example
in my opinion your first priority
shouldn't be am I out ranking the
competition your first priority should
be am I getting a positive return on
investment on my Google Ads campaigns
and if so can I reinvest those profits
back into my campaigns and scale this
out further but if in the case your goal
is to just flat-out
outrank your competitors even at the
expense of profitability then I'm gonna
show you how to do that in this video as
well with that being said in order for
you to flat-out outrank your Google Ads
competition you first have to understand
where you are in relation to your
competition on who's out ranking who and
how you go about analyzing that data in
your account so that you can understand
where you stand where they stand and
then be able to move forward with a plan
of attack to optimize what's preventing
you from out ranking them in the first
place the two critical resources you're
really going to need to know and master
in order to understand where you are
currently versus the competition so that
you can improve your performance and
outrank them is first the auction
insights report and second the
competitive metrics available in your
Google Ads account so with that being
said let's first get into the auction
insights report in order to get started
with the auction insights report go
ahead and hop into your Google Ads
account and then go to the campaign's
tab you can do
that by clicking campaigns on the
left-hand side or you can press G and
then C on your keyboard and it'll direct
you to the campaigns tab now once you're
here go ahead and click on action
insights right here above campaign
status and this is going to direct you
to the auction insights report
now all the auction insights report is
is just a report that gives you a really
good understanding on how you're doing
in relation to your competitors for your
Google ads keywords now remember Google
Ads is an auction and in this auction
place you have all these different
competitors bidding on these same
keywords as you so this report gives you
a really good understanding on how
you're doing compared to the rest of the
competition for example on the left hand
side you're gonna see all the different
websites here competing with these are
all your competitors that are bidding on
the same keywords as you in the same
locations you are targeting the next
thing you're gonna see is impression
share now impression share gives you
understanding on of all the potential
impressions you can get in your account
for the keywords you're bidding on and
the targeting you have what percentage
of those eligible impressions are you
actually receiving in comparison to your
competition so this is a great metric to
gauge the visibility you are getting for
your keywords compared to your
competition the next thing you can see
here is your overlap rate your overlap
rate tells you what percentage of the
time are your ads overlapping in the
same search and the same auction as
Google will call it so if someone goes
to Google and they search your keyword
what percentage of time is your ad and
your competition's ads both showing up
for the same auction the next thing is
your position above rate what percentage
of the time is your competitors ads
above yours the next one is top of page
rate this gives you an understanding on
what percentage of time is your ad in
one of the top three positions on the
Google search page the next one is your
absolute top page of rate the absolute
top of page rate tells you what
percentage of time you are in the number
one position so the big discrepancy
between top of page rate and absolute
top of page rate is top of page rate
just means within the one of the top
three ads you can be either 1 2 or 3 and
then absolute top of page rate means
what percentage of time you are in the
number
spot and then last but not least you
have outranking share what percentage of
the time is your ad rank higher than
your competition or vice versa so all
you need to pay attention to is your
impression share your top of page rate
and you're out ranking share usually
those are the three metrics that I focus
on the most when it comes to using the
auction insights report so let's go
ahead and look at the data here so right
now for me I have a twenty nine point 13
percent impression chair this competitor
here has a twenty nine point 14 percent
impression share so they're slightly
getting more visibility than me I mean
it's almost marginally irrelevant it's
like what is that point one percent so
we're about even on in terms of
impression share they are doing a little
bit better than me so I'm twenty nine
point thirteen percent and this
competitor is twenty nine point fourteen
percent so they're getting a little bit
more visibility than I am now the next
thing I want to look at is the top of
page rate
I want to outrank my competition right
this is what that video this video is
about is out ranking the competitors so
this is going to show you what
percentage of time you are on the top of
the page in relation to your competition
so going back to this example this
competitors top of page rate is seventy
three point ninety five percent my top
of page rate for this account is seventy
five point thirty one percent so I am
out ranking this competitor in the
Google Ads
auction place now moving forward if you
if I wanted to see well what percentage
of time in my in the number one spot and
versus them I'm forty four point fifty
seven percent and they are forty two
point seventy six percent so that means
I'm out ranking this competitor when we
are in the auction against each other so
when someone searches on that search
results page I'm out ranking this
competitor the majority of the time now
when analyzing your auction insights
data you might run into a situation
where you see something like this and I
want to let you know about it so you
don't freak out and that's when you see
another competitor with a much higher
top of page rate so if you look at this
one competitor they have a ninety one
point 86 percent top of page rate
compared to my seventy five point thirty
one percent top of page rate
you might see that at first and you'd be
like oh my goodness we are really losing
here on the visibility aspect of being
on the top of the page but don't just
focus on the top of the page write more
so you want to focus on the impression
share the impression share again is the
total visibility that you're actually
receiving for your keywords based on
your targeting this competitor with a 91
point 86% top of page rate their
impression share is less than 10% so for
the majority of the time their ad is not
even showing because of you know
whatever it might be and I'll get into
more of how you can improve your your
account so that way you can actually be
on the top of the page the majority of
time and maximize that impression share
but in this case this competitor for
whatever might be their not impression
share is extremely low maybe they're
limited by budget maybe they're limited
by a drink and they might just have a
really really high bid but they're
getting really restricted by budget so
they're not being there ad is not being
seen the majority of the time the
competitors you really want to focus on
the most are the ones that have a higher
impression share than you and have a
higher top of page rate those are the
ones that really are red flags if you
see a competitor as a higher impression
share and a higher top of page rate then
you are definitely out right losing to
them and you really want to work on
improving your account so that you can
outrank them and I might go into the
details and the step by step on how to
outrank your competition and and how to
improve your account later in this video
great now that you have a solid
understanding of the auction insights
report let's get into the competitive
metrics you'll need to understand and
use in order to understand how you're
performing in relation to the
competition right now that you have a
really solid understanding of the
auction insights report let's get into
the competitive metrics you're gonna
need to monitor in order to make sure
that you are staying ahead of the
competition and always gauging how
you're doing in relation to them so to
get started going to your Google Ads
account go into the campaign tab and
then you're gonna click on columns and
then you can click modify columns and
now we're gonna add these metrics and
you have a lot of different option here
in terms of metrics you can monitor and
your Google Ads campaigns I want you to
scroll all the way down to competitive
metrics and I want you to enable these
checked metrics so I'm going to go ahead
and walk you through each one so the
first one is search impression share
that's what I mentioned in the auction
insights video search impression share
is what percentage of the impressions
you are eligible to receive for the
keywords in your account and the
targeting in your account you're
actually getting what percentage of that
pie
are you actually receiving the next one
is search loss to rank what percentage
of the time are you not your ads not
being displayed because your ad rank is
low and the next one is your search loss
to budget what percentage of the time is
your ads not showing because you're just
limited by budget and then the next one
is search top impression share what
percentage of the time are you actually
in one of those top three positions this
is your top of page rate as is shown in
the auction insights report in here it's
called your search top impression share
what percentage of time you're in those
top three spots and then the last one
that I really like is click share your
click share is very similar to your
impression share and the difference is
your click share says of all the
potential clicks you can get for your
keywords and your targeting what
percentage of that ecosystem of that
targeting that you're reaching for those
keywords what percentage of it of those
clicks that you could get are you
getting in relation to your competition
this one you don't have to have enabled
this is a display campaign so if you
have display campaigns running you can
have the display metrics turned on as
well so you don't have to worry about
that one the only ones I want you to
worry about for your search campaigns is
search impression share search loss to
rank search lost a budget search top is
or just search top impression share and
then your click share so once you have
those enabled go ahead and click apply
now with all your different competitive
metric columns enabled you're going to
be able to see how you're doing in
relation to the competition so for
example now that I have my search and
pression share metric here I can see how
much visibility I'm actually getting for
my campaigns with the search loss to
rank metric here now I can see what
percentage of the time is am I not
getting that visibility because my ad
rank is too low and then the next one
search loss to budget what percentage of
the time am I not showing my ads just
because I just don't have enough money
behind these campaign
and then as well as the search top
impression share what percentage of the
time is my ad and one of those top three
positions and then last but not least
what is my click share of all the
potential clicks I can get from my
targeting what percentage am I actually
receiving so this with these competitive
metrics enabled now you're gonna be able
to gauge your visibility and your
performance for these campaigns in
relation to the competition so this is
really awesome so like you can see here
for this first campaign we have a twenty
four point sixty three percent search
impression share sixty-six percent of
the time our ads are not being displayed
because our we're being lost to rank
because our a drink is low and then
eight point eight percent of the time
our ads are not being displayed because
of a search loss to budget as well as
seventeen percent of time we are on the
top of the page in one of the top three
spots so for this campaign I know I got
some work to be done because there's a
lot of potential for me in terms of
visibility for this campaign if you look
at the next campaign right here I have a
sixty five point 33 percent search
impression share that's pretty good but
that it's not a hundred percent and we
want to get it to at least 90 plus
ideally and it also depends on the
campaign type but you usually want to
shoot for ninety plus four you're just
like standard keywords of people looking
for your product or service now twenty
six point 38 percent of time my ads are
not being seen because of low ad rank
and eight point thirty percent of the
time my ads are not being seen because
of loss to budget so you can see here
this gives you a really good
understanding on how you're doing now
when my ads are being displayed sixty
three percent of the time they're in one
of those top three positions so with
these competitive metric columns you're
gonna be able to really see how each
campaign is performing so you can really
understand where you are in terms of
visibility and more importantly where
you are in terms of the competition
alright now that you have a super solid
understanding of where you stand in
relation to the competition with that
auction insights report and the
competitive metrics you set up in your
account now let's talk about what's
stopping you and how you can address
that so you can outrank your competitors
now the first way you can out rake your
competitors is to raise your budgets if
you go ahead and check in your Google
Ads account if you notice that you are
by budget then you're gonna have to
raise your budgets if you want to
outrank your competitors and the reason
being is Google can't serve your ads if
they ran out of money so if in the case
you are limited by budget you're gonna
have to go ahead and put more money into
your campaigns so that you can get more
visibility and be able to outrank those
competitors the second way you can
outrank your competition is improving
your quality score if in the case when
reviewing your competitive metrics you
notice that the number one thing hurting
your search impression share is lost to
rank that means you have a low a drink
and the way you're going to improve your
ad rank is by increasing your quality
score or increasing your max cost per
click bids now if you want to learn more
about how to improve your a drink I
actually made a whole video on this you
can check that out the link will be in
the description box down below but a
quick summary of how to improve your a
drink is you're going to want to keep
testing ads so you can improve your
expected click-through rate you're going
to want to make sure that you grouped
your ad groups to your keywords
correctly and that it's relevant and
then you have an above average ad
relevance and you want to make sure
you're sending people to relevant
landing pages that are congruent with
your ads and keywords all this is going
to play into a factor in calculating
your quality score and your quality
score is going to impact your a drink so
if you have a very high search loss to
rank that means you have a low a drink
and you're out competitors have better
quality scores in you and they're just
flat-out out ranking you so in that case
you want to go ahead and make sure you
are focusing in on improving your
quality score because that's not only
going to help you from a cost
perspective and reduce your cost but
that's also going to help you get your
ads seen more often and improve your
search impression share so you can
outrank them and get more visibility in
the auction place last but not least the
third and final way for you to outrank
your Google ads competition is to test
different bid strategies Google offers a
lot of different bid strategies out
there you want to go ahead and test and
play with different bid strategies run
some campaign experiments test 50% of
your original campaign versus 50% of the
the experiment campaign with the new bid
strategy that you're testing if you're
not sure how to use campaign experiments
I actually made a video on that I'll
link it in the description box down
below but make sure you're testing these
different bid strategies and see which
one works best for your account which
one negatively impacts
you're competitive metrics and which one
positively impacts your competitive
metrics and not only that as well as
your ROI which one is generating more
conversions for you and vice versa now
if in the case you are more focused on
just out ranking the competition flat
out at the cost of ROI I have a one last
tip for you and how you can do that and
that's using the target impression share
bid strategy the target impression share
bid strategy is extremely competitor
focused where you are going after
maximum visibility and I'm going to show
you how to use that right now now if you
want to use a target impression share
bid strategy this strategy is if you
just want to flat-out outrank the
competition you are looking for maximum
visibility at the expense of ROI so
you're not necessarily focused with ROI
with this bid strategy you want
visibility because with this strategy
what you're gonna do is you're gonna
allow Google to set your bid limits for
you they're gonna set your keyword bids
in order for you to get the maximum
impression share the maximum visibility
possible for your campaign and your
targeting so if this is something you're
interested in go ahead and click on the
campaign that you want to set this for
and then go down to settings and then
from here you're gonna go ahead and go
down a bidding and then you can click
change strategy and then click select
directly and then from here on the
drop-down click target impression share
and now it's gonna ask you where do you
want your ads to appear we're gonna
switch this to top of results page
anywhere in the top three spots what
percent of impression sure are you
looking to target we want a hundred
percent because we want max exposure and
then from there set your max cost per
click bid limit so after doing keyword
research let's say we decided our max
bid limit is going to be $10 and then
just click Save now with this strategy
Google is going to work within your bid
limit so anything up into ten dollars in
this case and they're gonna optimize
your bids to get you that maximum
exposure within that bid limit that you
set again this strategy is ideal if
you're looking for that visibility I do
not recommend this strategy if you're
focused on ROI because with this
strategy Google is going to optimize for
visibility versus conversion if you're
interested more in ROI I recommend
automated bid strategies with conversion
like target CPA or max conversions or I
recommend just manual CPC bidding and
you set your individual keyword level
bids to get that maximum ROI but if in
the case you are looking to just
flat-out get as much visibility as
possible at the expensive cost this
strategy might be for you
that is it for this video I hope you got
tremendous value from it if you did if
you can like the video that'll help me
out a ton to get it ranked higher in the
search engines and if you like content
like this on Google advertising feel
free to subscribe to the channel and
click that Bell notification icon so you
can be notified of future content I post
on a weekly basis and if in the case
that you want to learn more about Google
advertising I highly recommend you check
out my 7 step checklist for launching
successful Google advertising campaigns
it's coming out soon it's a new book I'm
coming out with and you can find the
details to that in the description box
down below and if there are any topics
that I haven't covered on this channel
on Google advertising that you'd like me
to feel free to drop me a message or
comment down below and I'll be more than
happy to learn how I can better serve
you so that you can have profitable
google advertising campaigns thanks so
much for watching I'll see you the next
one take care